Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform.
During the month of March,
we here at Hanselman it's
are teaming up with code
newbie to learn all about
making stuff with hardware. Be
sure to check marches for
makers.com and subscribe to the
code newbie podcast.  From
hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes, a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
four 65. In this episode,
Scott talks three D printing
with printer bots, Brooke drum.
. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes and on
the phone right now. I've
got Brooke drum from printer
bot. Thank you very much.
Nice to meet you, sir.
Great to talk to you,
Scott. Thanks for having me
on, I am a, I
want to make sure that
people understand that I don't
have any affiliation with printer
bot. Although I have been
shamelessly promoting my three D
printer from, I have a
simple metal plus I think
people might think that's a
little suspicious that suddenly you're
on the show now, as
I've been gushing about your
product now for some weeks,
well, dude, I'm glad to
talk to you because I'm
so thankful for the stuff
that you've written and primarily,
because it's so honest, sometimes
a little brutally honest, but
I love that. And I
that's the type of people
I want to talk about
my products, the people that
tell the truth. Yeah. I
wanted a three D printer.
I knew it was. I
knew that it was something
I wanted in my house.
I do admit though that
I thought somehow it would
be like a star Trek
replicator, and I would just
say T Earl grey hot
and it would just pop
out. And it's kind of
like that once you get
it dialed in, but it's
also kind of, not, first
of all, I love this
star Trek reference and I
love talking to people that
know what that is. My
kids, I make that joke.
They don't even know what
I'm talking about, but yeah,
it is definitely not a
replicator. And I love that
Mike or that MakerBot actually,
I think they patented that
name cause I was like,
man, that's trouble now. You're
just making like a direct
line between, you know, that
science fiction and this reality.
And there's such a, such
a gap in between the
reality of the two at
the same time though, the
level of enthusiasm that you
see out of the, kind
of the general, when they
see these things. I, we
had a bunch of people
over for dinner recently, and
I don't know how your,
how your home situation is
set up, but basically I'm
not allowed to bring people
into my office when people
are visiting because they never,
they never come out. You
know what I mean? They
see the RK, they see
I'm at the office. So
my office is literally my
printer. I'm looking over at
my kitchen table in the
one great room we have
in our little 1300 square
foot house. And my printer
is on the table and
there's no room to even
sit down. So That's the,
that's the sign of a
true maker when the entire
house is the mine? Just
my office, I guess when
we go to the garage.
Yeah, they, they lose me.
Yeah. Yeah. So I we're
sitting there and we're, we're,
you know, we're having our
meal and I desperately want
to tell people about my
three D printer, but I
say nothing. And then someone
mentioned seeing a three D
printer on TV. And then
my wife looks at me
with her rolling eyes and
I go, you know, I
have a three D printer.
And the best part was
one of the ladies who
was over, she stood up
like, you can imagine this.
She stood up. She pushed,
you know, the, the, the,
the, the, the speed of
her raising up and the
back of her knees shove,
shove the chair back. And
she said, you have a
three D printer. And we've
been sitting here for two
hours, not looking at it.
And then my wife says,
my wife says, all right,
go ahead. There's a certain
kind of magic. I mean,
it's magic, but it's a
certain kind of magic. It's
like, you can't just, you
know, say the magic. You
know, I'm thinking like my
kids are in a Harry Potter,
just an incantation and it
work. But if you learn
the dark arts of three
D printing, you can make
this thing, do amazing things,
but it takes time to,
there's a learning curve. It
takes time. There are problems
that I kind of like
to say that there's always
going to be challenges, but
I think those challenges will
be reduced in the future.
Maybe we can all buy
material or plastic that isn't
crap, or maybe the software
tool chain will, will be
easier. But right now there's
some really hard parts that
can be off putting I'm
sure your demo was great
though. What did you do?
So I, it was getting
close to, you know, it's
getting close to a Valentine's
day. So we made a
3d pendant because it's, you
know, it's small. It can
be put on a necklace,
but it also it's precise
enough that the little kind
of 3d heart has a,
a loop on the top
and it also has supports.
So that's like my go
to first, instead of doing
a first cube, I do
this little 15 minute pendant
and it shows, supports, it
shows a little raft. You
know, the raft is the
thing that keeps it from
tipping over. And then everyone
gets one, right? So you
go into the application, you
say, I want 15 of
these. And then you have,
you have dinner. And then
everyone walks out with a
pendant. Oh, that's great. Wow.
I'm like a walking advertisement
for these houses. How long
have you been doing this?
I got my gosh, I'd
have to look at my
blog post. I think it's
been 18 days. That is
shocking. And so people have
to understand now I'm going
to be, do a little
reality here. You're not normal
people that have these things
for two weeks or three
weeks. They don't get, as
far as you've gotten now.
Surely you recognize that about
yourself, right? No, that's, that's,
I mean, that's very kind
and weird that you say
that because I'm reading the
forums. And honestly, I have
to say I'm finding the
community to be very kind
and very welcoming, but they're
talking about things like it's
like when you learn, you
know, Linux for the first
time, and then suddenly someone
starts saying, OCHIN said, and
you're like, Whoa. Yeah, there's
a vernacular that becomes, You're
talking about like extrusion. Like
you told me that my
retraction was dialed in and
it took me like learning
a new language. I was
like, like ordering in Spanish
at Chipotle. And I'm like,
Oh, okay. Yeah, There is
a vernacular. And I, that
is something that I completely
forget for newbies. They do
at shows and stuff. When
people see it for the
first time, and I'm, I'm
saying stuff like extrusion or
even stuff like hot end
and what, that, that, that
is something I take for
granted, but you're not normal
in, in the fact that
like I was reading your
first blog post that I
really loved and people have
to read it. It talks
through, was it 16 hours
and 16 emotions? It was
like 16 levels of hell.
I like to call it.
But you were frustrated at
the beginning. And the point
at which you kind of
are one of the points
where it was kind of
a pivotal point in the
blog post was when you
said you discovered open JS
cat or a JS Catterson.
And I was like, okay,
this guy is normal. He's
some kind of programmer guy.
And now, and now he
just took the fork in
the road that it's like,
okay. So those, cause I'm
not a programmer. I would
love to know how to
use that. I've opened up.
I don't know how many
plane rides I've tried to
open up open S CAD,
which again, here we are
in the vernacular, it's a
programmatical way to design things.
If you're not a programmer,
it's complete Greek. And it
does make some sense with
like math and if you're
logical, but I have never
successfully made one thing in
openness CAD or open jazz
CAD or whatever. But that's
when I knew you were
different. So that's how you're
different. Your brain works a
different way. Maybe that is
possible. I do think that
there's definitely some, some benefit
for that. But the reason
that I ended up using
open S CAD was that
I, I went down to
Fry's electronics and I said,
you know, I need some
filament. And then, but this
is here. There's a good
contrast between what you're saying,
where I'm different or I've
got some abilities, but I
also went down, bought some
filament off the, off the
shelf. Okay. In ignorance. I
just said, I need some
filament. And then the kid
goes, here's some. And I
go home. No abs. Well,
it actually, so that could
have been that it wasn't.
Gosh, I didn't know. I
was just wondering if you
made a mistake, Didn't even
check that, like, see, this
is the thing, right? Like
I may have the, the
JavaScript side, but I'm like,
you're literally like, I don't
even know what that is.
Yes. I hope not. But
the, I get the, and
I'm ready to plug it
in and I go, wait
a second. The spool hole
is different. The size of
the spool hole is different.
I'm like, Oh crap. You
know? So the, you know,
these are these, these filament
things, they look like big,
giant rolls of spaghetti. And
then the hole in the
middle is like the, the,
the, the, the whole way
your actual goes and you
stick it on top. So
I went to this open
JS CAD because I needed
basically, you know, a cylinder
with a hole in it.
All I wanted was to
make a donut. And I
fought with all these three
D CAD programs that you
probably use without any problem
at all. I couldn't make
this thing in Tinkercad, which
is the one that children
use. And then I went
to open JS cat, and
I did it in four
lines of code, because you're
just saying, I want a
cylinder. That's 40, 40 millimeters
tall with a radius of
26 millimeters. That's so clear.
Like, I think it's 12
actual keystrokes it's. So It's
funny because there is nuances.
And even it's funny, it
shows my age, but like
I design on, on this
Mac here and it has
a touch pad and there's
all these gestures and stuff.
And my engineer, he grew
up with inventor for, you
know, 15 years or something.
And so he can only
use a mouse and it's
a windows thing. So just
the software is so challenging,
even when it comes down
to selecting things and all
this gesture control there, there's
no standard interface for, you
know, you're trying to move
something around in three D
on a two D screen.
It's just really challenging. So
the software has a long
way to go before. It's
truly intuitive. Now I will
say that my son, who's
10. He uses, you know,
he plays Xbox games and
he has grown up in
kind of a three D
environment as far as like
games and just even touch
environment. So when he, like,
he sat down with me
last night and we were
doing a little, we've got
a new LCD panel coming
out to control the printer.
And we were designing a
little box. He just instinctively
understands what I'm doing. I
use SketchUp a lot. Cause
I teach a lot of
kids how to draw stuff
in three D. And some
of those programs like say
inventor or better example would
be Autodesk fusion, three 60,
which is free for makers,
very complicated interface. There's like
a whole class you need
to take on just the
tree of like the history
of what you're doing. And
all that SketchUp is just
like, draw a square. Like
your cylinder and SketchUp would
be draw a circle and
then grab the top of
it with this extrusion tool
and just pull up and
you're done. So he gets
that. But my old brain
thinking about all the way
back to like, you know,
you did things in command
line, it's new. We, we,
we definitely, we go with
the tool that we want
to, but what's nice is
that I found out finally,
like it clicks, there's so
many clicks. This is the
thing with the three D
printing. Like you, you reach
a new plateau. Right? What,
I mean, I spent three,
you know, three, four hours
trying to get the Z
axis, dialed in to make
it, so it didn't keep
hitting the tip. But then
once I did that, I'm
like, okay, you know, I
don't want to do it
again. But if I have
to, I got that skill
now. He's like, you know,
it's like learning to drive
stick. Yeah. It's funny on
customer support. I sit next
to a we're all in
like one office. And I
sit next to the customer
support guy. And when he
like over, I think I
mentioned in black Friday, we
had unbelievable sales. Like it
was ridiculous. And so we
had so many new users
looking to buy a three
D printer for the first
time. And so when we
started shipping those bots immediately,
you get this barrage of
questions. And they're all like,
if they just would have
read anything that we wrote,
like documentation and stuff, they
would know these answers. But
a lot of times I
say, listen, you, you want
to concentrate on the guys
that are dying a horrible
death right now. And that
we know there's a problem,
but give those guys a
day that are asking these
simple questions. Cause they're not
only going to figure it
out, but they're going to
realize, Oh, I can figure
things out. There is this
learning curve that even though
there was pain involved in
like your blog post, you
could see the progression of
you pushed through some of
the essential learnings and then
it, then you started calling
it like, well, you, you
described yourself later, like you
were pro. And I'm like,
yeah, it doesn't take that
long to like squirt hot
plastic. And you're just building
on that in a little
more structure. That is actually
true. You know? And I
liked that. You said that
you, you, you're doing a
lot of teaching of children.
So now, now that I
am the, the advanced expert
that I am, and I
say that with all, you
know, tongue in cheek, I'm
the expert within about three
miles of my house. Right.
Which means I've got this
neighborhood locked down. So I
decided to go to the,
my kids community school and
I say, Hey, you know,
I know everything about three
D printing. I want to
do a little talk. So
I give a little talk
at the kids' school, all
the kids immediately got it.
And the way to explain
it to them was to
go and Google do Google
images. And I searched for
three D printed chocolate. And
then they were like, they
were like, Oh, okay, cool.
It's just like, you know,
it's like, when you squeeze
a happy birthday on a
cake, right. Except with hot
plastic. And they're like, fine,
I totally get it. I,
and then I was starting
to explain how supports work,
right. This idea of overhang.
And I've got eight year
olds going, Oh, because it
would fall over. Otherwise I'm
like, yes. Then this is
Minecraft. They know, they know
you've got to have a
little support there. Otherwise the
bricks not going to stick.
It's amazing. Great. I always
use the for adults. The
example I use is I
like the cake frosting thing
because, you know, there's, there's
people that have done that,
but also just a hot
glue gun. So it's a
hot, it's like a hot
glue gun on a robot
arm. Ooh. I like that.
I'm going to use that.
Yeah, because we've all Done
that. Or we've squeezed out
toothpaste or we extrude stuff
constantly. I mean, every day,
you know, I, I brushed
my teeth morning and night
and it's the same thing,
You know, it's interesting because
the word extrude immediately makes
you think computer person like,
Oh, this is a technical
term, but you're right. Toothpaste,
guns, gunk catch up right
on their name and catch
up itself. So why, why
maybe it's just the word
extrude. That's too complicated for
people to get. We pee
in the snow. It's just
like my son would get
that. Believe me, Hey, this
is Scott. You know, I
like a good community edition.
The best things in life
are free. And the community
license from our sponsors sync
fusion will give individual and
small business developers access to
more than 650 components across
12 platforms. And that includes
WPF and windows forms, JavaScript,
Xamarin, Lightswitch. You can check
it all out. It's sync,
fusion.com/hanselman to claim your free
license. So I got this
magazine right now, I'm looking
at it's make magazine and
it has 26, three D
printers tested. So I, I
go and buy this at
the, at the radio shack
fire sale, which I'm very
sad about. But yeah, I
got it for 90% off
though. And it's it's page
after page of three D
printers. So I am just
geeking out and here we
go, look at that printer
bought simple metal best value
returns with serious upgrades. Here's
the thing though, I'm looking
through this and it's 26
different printers and this is
over, I'm oversimplifying it, but
it's basically 25, $2,000 printers.
This is basically what it
is. Right. And then the
simple metal for five 99
and that's assembled. Right. And
you basically came in like
second out of 26 printers,
but I didn't feel like
that was really expressed in
the magazine. Like they should
have been like, Holy crap,
twenty-five printers and the one
you should bought. I think
they were so focused on
results. And I really, you
know, what would be fascinating
for you is get the
other two issues that they
did on the two, it's
an annual issue that they've
done for three years. You
have to go back and
I think might even have
him on ebook or something
or download. It is fascinating
where they started. It was
like a hot mess of
printers and half the companies
don't even exist anymore. And
I remember dropping off, I
went with my wife, we
drove over to make an,
I forget what they are,
but Sebastopol and they've moved
now, but we dropped off
the printer. I mean, went
like we had it in
our trunk. We dropped off
the printer and I put
it on the table and
there's all these other printers.
And there's like 30 printers.
And I hadn't seen, I
don't think, but five of
them or something, it was
just this wild. So history
of the, the consumer three
D printing is kind of
fascinating. If you look back
on the old issues. Well,
over the years, the three
years that they've done it,
they realized that they really
needed to focus in on
a very fair side by
side comparison. So in this
particular issue, they even made
special models. And the guy
that, that did it, I
don't know if I've met
him, but he's fantastic how
his approach to get the
best side by side comparison
results. I mean the same
filament, these models were specifically
designed to highlight perhaps one
particular aspect of three D
printing. And they did a
series of them. It's very
thorough, but I do agree
with you that it goes
in. So kind of in
depth to the side by
side comparison of how the
printer actually prints. When really
I have always said from
the beginning, from even the
Kickstarter, the whole reason I'm
in the game is I
couldn't afford a three D
printer. And I had to
save up for literally, it
was literally six months cause
I was a web developer
at the time and making
zero money. So I birthday
Christmas, I think I ended
up putting part of it
on the credit card. And
I didn't tell my wife
that I bought a MakerBot
cupcake that was $700, normally
$1,200. And I thought, if
this is the price for
three D printing, it's never
going to take off. So
I have always said, the
first barrier to entry is
price for the average consumer.
So that is my focus.
But at the same time,
I've built $500 printers that
the Kickstarter printer was, there
was a portions of it
that were kind of crappy
over the three years that
I've been in business. I've
realized you can't sacrifice quality
for the price that you
offer. So we've really got
two priorities now printer, but
not just low price, but
quality. So I think we
stand out on both. Yeah.
The thing that is so
impressive in this one, as
opposed to the there's a
little rip rap, rap, a
little plastic one or an
aplastic rather, but a half
plastic, half wood partially kind
of put together hobbyist printer
they have at my kid's
school because it's lack of
rigidity, right? I mean, it's
okay. But if you blow
on it or if the
air conditioner turns on, or
if a kid literally stomps
through the room, it falls
apart. Yeah. I came kicking
and screaming to, I used
to say, when I first
showed my design, these engineers
literally just made fun of
me. They were like, this
is ridiculous. You've got no
rigidity. This isn't going to
work. And I, I kind
of held on to that
thread that I discovered myself
that you, you truly do
only have to get over
the bar. And so I
used to say, well, it's
rigid enough. And it was
rigid enough if like you
say, nobody's stomped through the
room and in the best
circumstances, it was surprisingly good.
But over time as more
and more and more and
more people have bought, I
mean, you can't predict what
people are going to do
with your printer. So rigidity
is something that I've really
adopted as ultimately important. And
so now we're making a
metal, not just plastic instead
of our bars. And now
on the simple middle that
you have, the bars do
kind of hanging up in
the air all by themselves.
But what I'm really recommending
is the handle that ties
those two bars together. It
just reduces the variables of,
you know, some people would
move their printer and by
grabbing the two bars and
when you squeeze them together,
while it's printing, believe it
or not people do this,
they grab the two bar,
squeeze it together and move
it across their desk. And
now they've just screwed up
their print. So anyway, rigidity
is King 12 millimeter bars
is kind of a standout.
We use those on the
simple, but rigidity is so
important if you want reliability.
Well, and once I got
it and the term I'm
using is, is dialed in.
Once I got this thing
adjusted, I put little rubber
feet on it, you know,
just went to Michael's and
got some little rubber feet.
Okay. And it's on a
very sturdy desk and it
just works. I think I've
had, I've printed 10 things
in the last 10 days.
And one of them has
failed. Really? What failed, I'm
curious, the, the wire, what
do you call it? The
there's a plastic thing that
has a bundle of wires
that goes from the back
of the box into where
the fan and the extruder
are. Oh, sure. Yeah. It,
the thing I was printing
as quite tall, as about
four inches tall. So as
it moved, it, it kind
of, Oh right. The cable
bundle that comes out of
the external vendor, we need
to suspend that. Yeah. We
need to suspend that on
a little sprung structure that
holds it up out of
the way I've had prints
fail for that to now
nine out of 10 worked,
were they long prints or
short prints? Every print that
I've done of, it has
been basically between five and
seven hours Dough that's long.
Is that bad? That's cleanly
in the long category as
well. Yeah. So I do
the at three notches below
slowest. What does that mean
Above? There's a, in the
tool. Yeah. There's how
fast what's your millimeters? This
a minute or whatever it
is. Is it second or
minute? 40 millimeters. A second.
Okay. Yeah. That's that's three
or four notches. It's average,
honestly. I mean, we can
go to 80 if you
really are crazy, but I,
I print it 50 actually
50 or 60. You print
it 50. Okay. That would
be right smack in the
middle of the, this particular
bar. Yeah. So I do
infill density, infill density for
folks that are getting tired
of us. Speaking out here
is the, you know, the,
the density of the inner
parts. If you make a
complete solid cube, you don't
want to waste all of
that. So you know, all
that plastic, so you basically
make a mesh inside. So
I do 15% infill and
about 30% mil, 30 millimeters
a second. And I do
them overnight. Basically. I know
it's bad. The house could
burn down, but I, I
hooked up a camera. It's
metal. It could catch on
fire. It'll just drop off
and have a little campfire
on your, on your bed.
I do have the camera.
So, and I haven't, so
I have a little camera
pointing at the thing and,
and I, and I can
certainly see what happened and
I can, yeah, I can
see clearly. And all I
did to solve that cable
problem was I just got
a zip tie, which is,
which brings me to my
next question, which is, it
seems like for the first
four or five prints, all
I did was print stuff
to make it better. You
know what I mean? And
we're not saying it wasn't
awesome to start with, but
all of the personality types
of the people who are
into three D printing is
just filled with people who
are like, well, there's a
flaw in this design and
I built this crazy plastic
piece to fix it. Yeah.
It's funny because, you know,
remember I come from a
Kickstarter where my Kickstarter was
printers that were printed. So
I, my original printer bought
was a rep wrap, a
totally open source. I opened
source document all my stuff
now, but back then I
had this one design. If
you didn't have a printer
about it, you could still
download the files for free
and print your own. You
still have to get like
threaded bars and pairings and
stuff. But so I come
from, you know, iterate, iterate,
iterate, make this better, print
your printer. And so there's,
there's still a remnant of
people that like, they like
to modify their printer and
add all these add on.
Some of them are ridiculous,
but it just makes me
laugh. If you go on,
you know, I put my
files on you. imagine.com Y
O U imagine it's owned
by Ultimaker. But I used
to put them on Thingiverse.
I do sometimes browse thing
versus to see what's going
on. Cause it's a large
community. But anyway, if you
go and think of verse
and search for printed, but
you will see the craziest
people printing the craziest stuff
to do the craziest things
to their printer bot. It's
hilarious. But that's why I
love our design. It's easy
to do that. There's very
little to do to your
printer when it's inside of
box, like a lot of
the printers out there, and
I'm not just picking on
MakerBot, I've always said, it
looks like a microwave oven.
To me, it's about the
same size, but a lot
of printers are like that.
They just, for rigidity sake,
they put walls around all
sides. And then what are
you going to do to
it? You know, it's like
really there's no, mine is
like wide open bare bones.
Add something on the top.
You made a spool holder
on top, put a camera
on the front of the
bed, put the feet on
the bottom. There's people that
extend the X and Y
to what like 12 inches
by 12 inches on that
bought that you have it's
insane. That can be done.
Absolutely. Yeah. So I got
to make it print more
space. Just think about the
Z. Take those now it's
it's nontrivial to press those
bars out. You gotta like
hit it with a hammer,
but you could do longer
Z bars and a longer
acne rod from McMaster-Carr right
now spend about, well McMaster-Carr
is expensive, but you could
find him for like 50
bucks and you could have
a 16 inch tall Z.
It's really easy to mod.
Wow. There's a, we have
an upgrade on our little
makers kit. That's normally just
a little four by four
by four cube. And all
you need is a wider
bed and bars and belt.
That's it. So people buy
these like 18 inch long
bars and they got like
a little like a training
wheels on the outside of
the bed to keep it
from tipping, the bot over
and everything. It's just nuts.
It's funny to do that.
Search printer bot on Thingiverse.
It's funny when people are
doing, I do like that.
One of the things that
you kind of, you, you
force the user to do,
like in the onboarding is
you say, okay, you've got
it set up. You printed
a little cube. Good job.
Congratulations on your cube. Now
the first thing you're going
to do is print a
little, you call it a
fan shroud. And basically it's
a, it looks like a
traffic cone that directs the
fan down into the, the
extruder, Right? So that's one
of, that's the best example
of how people begin to
upgrade their bodies from day
one. And I say, upgrade
really what I'm saying is
like a convenience thing. This
it'll work without the fan.
In fact, I have printers
at my shop that don't
have that shroud, but it's
just a little bit better
with that shroud. So we
forced them to kind of
go through the learning process
of see you can print
useful things, not just like
little plastic octopus or key
chain holders or whatever. I
mean, you know That my
family teases me because they're
like, Oh great. You're going
to print us a bunch
of crap for Christmas. I'm
like, well, you're darn right.
Expecting plastic robots for Christmas.
That's going to happen, but
Might have to walk before
you run. So why not
just force them to, and
now that the risk in
that by the way is
some people don't. So then
they get less than excellent
results on their cooling because
the fan shroud directs, you
know, most of the air
flow down to where it
needs to be to cool
that plastic quickly and you
get a better surface finish.
So I've, I've kind of
weighed, you know, are we
really helping people by forcing
them to print something that
I would consider an essential
addition? You know, you mentioned
the feet too. Like we
may, you may see us
add that fan trout and
the feet and who knows
the handle, the spool holder
as, as a, you know,
something that comes with the
kit, but it's just great
to have something in front
of you that you can
bolt something onto that you
printed on your first print.
People do love it. I
will say that we get
great feedback on that first
print up. I think that
the, the, it was, there
was an empowering experience because
it wasn't just printing this
piece and it snaps on,
you had to unscrew some
things and take it apart.
And it made me not
afraid of the printer. Right.
And it made me say,
Oh, okay, well, if, if,
if he says that this
is a design that might
improve it, maybe other people
might. And I, I, I
added a couple of things,
like you said, I added
a spool. I added the
feet. I put a little
camera on the side. I
don't think I'm quite ready
to take the metal parts
apart and make the things
longer. But I do have
a sense of, of, of
power that, that I like.
And I, I went to
my dad who has a
it's funny. So I go
to my dad's, my dad's
shop. And I say, I
got three D printer. You
know, it's pretty amazing. And
I said, I'm a maker
to now now understand I'm
standing in my dad's garage.
And in my dad's garage
is all this woodworking equipment
and, and saws. And he's
got one of those, like
fans mounted on the, on
the ceiling that sucks the
sawdust up forever. And he's
calling me a dork. He's
saying I'm a geek. And
he's literally saying this without
realizing that he's standing amongst
his generations makers stuff. Right.
So I'm trying to convince
him that like woodworking and
that level of kind of
like, you know, making geekery
is just like, I'm right
there with you, man. I'm
just doing it in plastic.
And we're arguing about whether
or not which one of
us is a maker. That's
awesome. My brother says, you
know, guys, it's just two
sides of the same 12
sided dice. I think we're,
you know, Dale Doherty, who's
the guy that founded make
magazine. He was with Tim
O'Reilly on a rally media.
He is great because he's
like a big kid. And
when he talks about making,
it just resonates because he,
his belief and it is
mine as well, is that
we're all makers. And I
challenged that when I talked
to him for the first
time, I'm like, you really
think we are because I
believed, but I wanted to
hear him articulate. But think
about, think about just your
everyday life. We are constantly
making something we're creative beings.
I think that it's just
in our DNA to make
stuff and to put things
together. I mean, Legos resonates
with all ages. Just, you
know, even like when I,
when I play Minecraft with
my kid, I'm like, Oh,
this is the kid's game.
No, I want to build
the biggest baddest castle I
eat in there, whether it's
cooking, which, you know, you're
making dinner or you're drawing
on a whiteboard, or it
just doesn't matter. We're constantly
when I mow the lawn,
I, I look at like,
how straight are my lines?
Everything we do is, is
a kind of tied to
making things. I mean, even
procreating, we have children, we
were constantly making. And so
when you unlock that little
like, Oh, I can actually
do something that didn't exist
a minute ago. And I
had a part in that,
especially when you get people
to start designing, they're like,
Whoa, that didn't exist before
I thought it. And then
now it's here in my
hand. There's just like this
magical thing that happens where
there's a, you kind of
validate this urge that we
all have to make. And
then you hold it in
your hand, you give that
guest the heart pen in
or whatever. There's something so
incredibly satisfying about adding something
to the universe that is
just, it's hard to even
explain. It's kind of metaphysical
or spiritual. Almost. It absolutely
is. And I, I honestly,
I couldn't, it, I couldn't
say it better when I,
you know, I downloaded things
from Thingiverse and I made
other people's things, but then
when I couldn't get that
school to fit and I
made an adapter and then
I had dinner and I
came back in there, it
was, it was, it was
weird. I mean, I mean,
it was, it was like
star Trek. Yeah. Yeah. It
took, it took a couple
hours, but that didn't exist
before I thought it and
made it. And now it's
here and it is solving
a problem for me every
single day. I think wild
too, about this is cut.
It's not really off topic,
but it's related. So there's
something about also sharing what
you have made yourself to
other person. And it's not
just like, you know, I've
showed, shown people, things I've
drawn or a website I've
done or whatever. And there's
something like, there's a disconnect
when you can't actually touch
it. And when people hold
it and feel the weight
and the texture and they
turn it over and they
see the bottom and then
they instantly understand like infill
and overhanging, they see the
lattice work and the translucent
PLA or whatever. I got
to tell this quick story.
So when I first started
printing with my first three
D printer, I designed the
first thing I designed this
may tell you something about
myself was a bottle opener
to open your beer. And
I uploaded it to Thingiverse.
And I thought I made
this thing. I'm made this.
Now. It was kind of
a riff off of another
one I saw, but the
other one was like clunky.
The first thing I printed
was a bottle opener. And
I just wasn't, I was
glad to have it, but
wasn't pleased with how it
looked. So I made the
design better and then I
uploaded it and I was
like, that's awesome. I made
something. And then literally it
was probably two hours later.
I get this alert on
my email thing. And it
said, somebody downloaded your, or
no, it actually told me
somebody made your thing, this
thing that I uploaded. And
I'm like, what somebody made,
what I designed. This is
awesome. And so I go
online and the guy had,
he was so kind, I
gotta look this guy up.
He, he posted a picture,
a real picture of the,
the thing that he printed.
And I was like, no
way somebody pre somebody printed
what I designed a couple
hours ago and he's holding
it in his hand. And
so I read the details.
He was on his boat
off the coast of Australia.
Wow. And he was sitting
there with his Corona that
he had opened with the
bottle opener that I designed.
You put a penny in
it and it helps you
open your bottle. And it
just blew my mind. And
like forever changed. I was
like, Oh my gosh, I
just physically came in contact.
My ideas physically came in
contact with a guy on
the other side of the
world and he's enjoying himself.
Maybe it was the beer,
but in part it was
the bottle opener. So I
was just like, this is
beyond just creating something and
like having the satisfaction it's
beyond sharing this, someone else
In the room, this is
sharing it with the world
in a very real way.
And it just blew my
mind. Absolutely. Fantastic. Thank you
so much, Brooke, from, from
printer, but for talking to
me today, this has just
been an absolute joy and
I do hope we stay
in touch. Oh, my pleasure,
Scott, anytime. Thanks for what
you're doing. Then this has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.